
# Types

The different methods of knowledge discovery/data mining

## Predictive models

<details>
    <summary>Classification</summary>

**Definition**:

- Given a collection of records (the training set)
  - Each record contains a set of *attributes*, one of the attributes is the *class* we'd like to predict
- Find a *model* for the class attribute as a function of the values of the other attributes
- Goal:
  - Previously unseen (something we do NOT know the output of) records should be assigned a class as accurately as possible.
  - A *test set* is used to determine the accuracy of the model

**Application**:

- Direct Marketing
  - Goal:
    - Reduce cost of mailing by targeting a set of consumers likely to buy a new cell-phone product.
  - Approach:
    - Use the data for a similar product introduced before.
    - We know which customers decided to buy and which decided otherwise. This {buy, don't buy} decision forms the class attribute.
    - Collect various demographic, lifestyle, and company-interaction related information about all such customers.
      - Type of business, where they stay, how much they earn, etc.
    - Use this information as input attributes to learn a classifier model.

- Sky Survey Cataloging:
  - Goal:
    - To predict class (star or galaxy) of sky objects, especially visually faint ones, based on the telescopic survey images (from Palomar Observatory).
      - 3000 images with 23,040 x 23,040 pixels per image.
  - Approach:
    - Segment the image.
    - Measure image attributes (features) - 40 of them per object.
    - Model the class based on these features.
  - Success Story:
    - Could find 16 new high red-shift quasars, some of the farthest objects that are difficult to find

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Regression</summary>

**Definition**:

- "Quantitative counterpart to classification problem"
- Predict a value of a given continuous valued variables based on the values of other variables, assuming a lnear or nonlinear model of dependency
- Greatly studied in statistics, neutral network fields

**Application**:

- Predicting sales amounts of new product based on advertising expenditure
- Predicting wing velocities as a function of temperature, humidity, air pressure, etc.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Anomaly/Deviation Detection</summary>

**Definition**:

- Detect significant deviations from normal behavior

**Application**:

- Credit card fraud detection
- Network intrusion detection

</details>

## Descriptive models

<details>
    <summary>Clustering</summary>

**Definition**:

- Given a set of data points, each having a set of attributes, and a similarity measure among them, find clusters such that:
  - Data points in one cluster are more similar to one another.
  - Data points in separate clusters are less similar to one another.
- Similarity Measures:
  - Euclidean Distance if attributes are continuous.
    - (n dimensional distance formula)
  - Other Problem-specific Measures.
- Intra-cluster distances are minimized while Itner-cluster distances are maximized

**Application**:

- Market Segmentation:
  - Goal:
    - subdivide a market into distinct subsets of customers where any subset may conceivably be selected as a market target to be reached with a distinct marketing mix.
    - Across an entire distribution of customers we will have groups of similar purchasing habits
  - Approach:
    - Collect different attributes of customers based on their geographical and lifestyle related information.
    - Find clusters of similar customers.
    - Measure the clustering quality by observing buying patterns of customers in same cluster vs. those from different clusters.

- Document Clustering (Compositional semantics):
  - Goal:
    - To find groups of documents that are similar to each other based on the important terms appearing in them.
  - Approach:
    - To identify frequently occurring terms in each document. Form a similarity measure based on the frequencies of different terms. Use it to cluster.
  - Gain:
    - Information Retrieval can utilize the clusters to relate a new document or search term to clustered documents.
  
</details>

<details>
    <summary>Association Rule Discovery</summary>

**Definition**:

- Given:
  - a set of records each of which contain some number of items from a given collection
- Produce dependency rules which will predict occurrence of an item based on occurrences of other items.

**Application**:

- Marketing and Sales Promotion
  - Let the rule discovered be:
    - { Bagels, ... } --> { Potato Chips }
    - { Antecedent } --> { Consequent }
- Potato Chips as consequent
  - Can be used to determine what should be done to boost its sales.
- Bagels in the antecedent => can be used to see which products would be affected if the store discontinues selling bagels.
- Bagels in antecedent and Potato chips in consequent
  - Can be used to see what products should be sold with Bagels to promote sale of Potato chips!

- Supermarket shelf management.
  - Goal:
    - To identify items that are bought together by sufficiently many customers.
  - Approach:
    - Process the point-of-sale data collected with barcode scanners to find dependencies among items.
  - A classic rule
    - If a customer buys diaper, then they are very likely to buy milk
    - Milk should be stocked near the diapers

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Sequential pattern discovery</summary>

</details>
